Something very similar to what we've talked about with rest parameters similar in syntax at least is
the spread operator.
Now before I explain what it actually is I'm going to go ahead and write out a couple of variables so
I'll write out let's say let no one equals 20.
And then we'll do a comma because we're lazy.
We'll do two equals four.
Like so now if I wanted to find out the max value whichever variable held the greatest number then it's
pretty simple business rates nothing tricky we just do a console log and then we use the math object
in a method on the math object called Max and it'll tell us the maximum or the highest number out of
all of the arguments that we pass in.
In this case it's 40 pretty easy business right.
However if we use something like an array to keep track of our values we'll create a LED array.
You do a concert as well.
I'm just making it replaceable.
So in this case I'll do 25 50 75 100 likes so it would be kind of hard to break this thing up into individual
items and the way we used to do this was to kind of do a work around with apply and then we pass in
the math object.
And after that we pass in our array and we already understand kind of the mechanics of how this works
and how to apply actually breaks up the array into individual items to be used as arguments.
However this is kind of confusing especially if you're not super super familiar with javascript.
This looks very confusing and most people might not have any idea why you used apply and then you just
passed in a math object as an argument.
So pretty confusing stuff and that's where the spread operator comes in with the rest parameter.
What we did was we basically said any extra arguments that you pass in there are going to get put inside
of this array.
So we take all of these extra individual arguments and consolidate them into one a re the spread operator
kind of does the opposite.
And it takes an array and breaks it up into a bunch of individual arguments to be passed in separately.
So in this case instead of doing all of this right here you can just do Max.
And this is what a spread operator looks like we do.
Dot dot dot just like before.
And then the array.
OK.
Now in this case it does the exact same thing and I can prove that to you.
I'll pass on another number for my index.
And now the greatest number is 110.
Now I could do 200 like so.
So once again it's kind of like the different end of the spectrum.
Whenever I was using rest parameters I defined them whenever I defined my function like right here.
OK.
On the other end of the spectrum when I pass in arguments if I want to pass in an array but I want to
pass in each item of the array individually as a separate argument all I have to do now is just pass
in my array and put a dot dot dot before it and it'll break up all of these arrays into individual arguments
to be passed and which is much much easier to do.
Now with that being said unlike the rest parameter with the spread OPERATOR This doesn't have to be
the last thing the last argument in your list.
You could also pass in like a zero.
So that way if for example you had a bunch of negative numbers like this you could make sure that you
don't show a negative number as the greatest and you can just kind of make sure that if there is a negative
number you catch it.
So in this case it will actually print out the maximum number is zero.
So the reason you can do this is because it's unlikely that you will have an infinite number of items
in your array.
So you can set up your spread operator to be the first the second the third or the very last argument
in your arguments.